Add integration option to disable hash-driven UIX template/Forge refreshes (#376)
Lint-Free-Technology/uix: docs/source/extras/hash-template-variable-updates.md

---
title: Disable hash template variable and updates
description: Learn how to disable hash template variable updates and when to use this performance option
---
# Disable hash template variable and updates

By default, UIX exposes `hash` as a template variable and updates templates when the URL hash (`#...`) changes. UIX provides an option to disable this behavior to avoid hash-driven rebinds and Forge updates.

## Enabling via the integration UI

> The option is **disabled by default**. To enable it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The option is **unset by default**. To set the option:
```

1. In Home Assistant, go to **Settings → Devices & Services → UI eXtension → Configure**.
2. Select **Performance settings** from the menu.
3. Toggle **Disable hash template variable and updates** on.
4. Save.

> The setting takes effect immediately across all connected browser sessions — no page reload required.

Reviewer: Checking if this is correct. When the setting is changed, is the current panelState updated to not include hash? If not then there may still be a one off panelState difference. Can you check this?
